# GraphQL Best Practices

## Index

- [GraphQL Best Practices](#graphql-best-practices)
  - [Index](#index)
  - [1- Objective](#1--objective)
  - [2- Serving over HTTP](#2--serving-over-http)
  - [3- Main Elements](#3--main-elements)
    - [3.1- Queries](#31--queries)
    - [3.2- Mutations](#32--mutations)
    - [3.3- Types](#33--types)
    - [3.4- Resolvers](#34--resolvers)
    - [3.5- Field-resolvers](#35--field-resolvers)
    - [3.6- Subscriptions](#36--subscriptions)
    - [3.7- Schemas](#37--schemas)
  - [4- Nullability](#4--nullability)
  - [5- Pagination](#5--pagination)
  - [6- Caching and Batching](#6--caching-and-batching)
  - [7- Authentication and Authorization](#7--authentication-and-authorization)
  - [8- Error Handling](#8--error-handling)
  - [9- API Versioning](#9--api-versioning)
  - [10- Apollo Server](#10--apollo-server)
  - [11- Useful Links](#11--useful-links)
  - [12- Bibliography](#12--bibliography)

## 1- Objective

The purpose of this document is to present the conventions and standards used at Wolox for GraphQL. It is supposed to cover the main aspects of GraphQL from the Wolox's approach to it.

## 2- Serving over HTTP

## 3- Main Elements

### 3.1- Queries

- **Queries must be used only to fetch resources, not to modify nor delete them.**
- Queries names should be in camelCase. They could be singular or plural depending on the amount of resources being fetched. In addition, _get_ and _fetch_ verbs shouldn't be used. For example:
  - `user` to get one user.
  - `users` to get more than one user.
  - `usersFromTags` on some hypothetical case of getting users that match with some tags.

- Arguments must be a set of key-value pairs comma separated (in the resolver the arguments are received in an objetc and destructuring is possible and convenient). A max of 4 arguments is recommended. For example:

  ```graphql
  query {
    user(firstName: 'John', lastname: 'Doe'){}`
  }
  ```

- The queries should be as nested as possible. The fields that are being asked must not be comma separated.

  ```graphql
  query {
    user(firstName: 'John', lastName: 'Doe'){
      firstName
      lastName
      email
      contactUser {
        firstName
        lastName
        email
      }
      books {
        title
        calification
        author {
          firstName
          lastName
          birthDate
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

- Variables, directives and fragments are allowed.

  ```graphql
  query {
      user($firstName: 'John', lastname: 'Doe') {
        friends(firstName: $firstName) {
          firstName
          lastName
          email
        }
      }
    }
  ```

  Note: In the example above, we are getting all John Doe's friends that have his same name.

  ```graphql
  query {
      user($firstName: 'John', $lastname: 'Doe', $showFriends: true) {
        friends @include(if: $showFriends) {
          firstName
          lastName
          email
        }
      }
    }
  ```

### 3.2- Mutations

### 3.3- Types

### 3.4- Resolvers

Resolvers, in graphql, work the same way for mutations and resolvers (nevertheless remember that we must not use a query resolver to modify nor delete data).

Note: The examples shown here are written in JavaScript, but resolvers are functions and they can be implemented in any language.

- Given that the resolvers are functions, they must follow the naming convention used in the technology and project we are working in.

- Resolvers should be kept as specific as possible. This way, we can take advantage of GraphQL performance.

  For example. Lets suppose we have this query

  ```graphql
  query{
    user(id: 1){
      id
      name
      phones {
        number
        prefix
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  If a resolver is used to get `id` and `name`, and another one is used to get the phones; when the user doesn't ask for the field phones, the resolver that get the phones won't be called.

- Each resolver must return a key-value map (JSON), for all to produce the same structure than the user's query.

  For example, this could be the response from the two resolvers:

  ```javascript
  {
    id: 1,
    name: "John Doe"
  }
  ```

  ```javascript
  [
    {
      number: "12345678",
      prefix: "11"
    },
    {
      number: "87654321",
      prefix: "11"
    }
  ]
  ```

  And this the response generated by our router to user's query:

  ```json
  {
    "data": {
      "user": {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "John Doe",
        "phones": [
          {
            "number": "12345678",
            "prefix": "11"
          },
          {
            "number": "87654321",
            "prefix": "11"
          },
        ]
      }
    }
  }
  ```

- Resolvers params (_<https://graphql.org> definition is used here_):
  - `obj`: The previous object, which for a field on the root Query type is often not used.
  - `args`: The arguments provided to the field in the GraphQL query.
  - `context`: A value which is provided to every resolver and holds important contextual information like the currently logged in user, or access to a database.
  - `info`: A value which holds field-specific information relevant to the current query as well as the schema details.

### 3.5- Field-resolvers

### 3.6- Subscriptions

### 3.7- Schemas

## 4- Nullability

## 5- Pagination

## 6- Caching and Batching

## 7- Authentication and Authorization

## 8- Error Handling

## 9- API Versioning

## 10- Apollo Server

## 11- Useful Links

- [GraphQL Specification](https://spec.graphql.org/)
- [Apollo Server Documentation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/)
- [GraphQL Resolvers: Best Practices](https://medium.com/paypal-engineering/graphql-resolvers-best-practices-cd36fdbcef55) by Mark Stuart
- [Apollo Blog](https://blog.apollographql.com/)
- [GraphQL official site](https://graphql.org)

## 12- Bibliography

Bilbiography used by the authors of this documents can be found at [bibliography](./bibliography.md)
